>> Sarah Drasner: You can't be a web
performance expert without also being
an image expert.
This is a really true statement,
if you think about it.
Images are really heavy, they're a huge
part of what we transmit on the web.
This is the HDP archive, this is all of,
it's a breakdown of what we
transmit on the web on all sites.
So how much the average site loads, and
what amount of content on average
people do of each one of them.
Look at images.
Images is huge.
That's a huge amount for
each one of those.
So if you want to reduce.
But, create better performance for
your site.
Learning how to properly optimize
images and work with images,
is a really big piece of this.
So there's a number of sources
to get free images from, so
some free ones, Unsplash,
Google Image License Search.
I don't know if you know how to do this.
Let's go do that really quick.
So let's look at, look for a mountain.
Go to images, and then,
I go to tools, and then,
I go to usage rights,
and labeled for reuse.
So these are all of the things
that are definitely licensed for
me to use, so I can still use these and
not have a problem.
It's important that you do this, so that
you don't accidentally take somebodyelse's
image off of Google Image search, but
that tool is really, really a nice one.
Great, Freepik is a good one, I think
you have to give them your email, but
you guys know how to give fake emails,
right?
[LAUGH] Freeimages, and Pexels,
I think same kind of thing,
there's free images, but
you have to sign up or something.
Low cost, creative market is great,
adobe stock is good.
Costly, it's not that costly,
but Shutterstock and iStockPhoto,
if you're not gainfully employed
somewhere, 50 bucks and a minch can kind
of set you back, especially if you have to
buy a whole bunch of them, or something.
The thing though is,
that there is a cost, right?
So if I'm looking for
something in Shutterstock and iStockPhoto,
I can find that image really fast.
If I'm working for a big company,
that actually makes sense for
them to do, right?
They don't want me, that they're
paying way more than the $50 image,
to spend three hours through looking
through, Unsplash or Freepick.
It's more cost effective for
them to use something like iStockPhoto
where they can get a subscription plan,
and I can use that,
because some people cost a bunch per hour.
So it really depends on if you're working
for a company, or if you're not, or
if you need to get
something done really fast.
Time is money.
Raster and Vector.
So there's a big difference between raster
and vector, and you might have heard those
two terms, but maybe, you don't
know the difference between them.
Raster, imagine that you, again, we're
always imagining a piece of graph paper.
Imagine that you have a bunch of graph
paper where you plot every dot of
that graph paper, and you kind of
encode it with a different color for
each little square,
that would be raster, and
that's how we build up
things like JPEGs and stuff.
And vector is really where you are giving
it some mathematical commands, and
allowing it to draw things for you, so
it's kind of like more declarative, and
it never loses resolution.
So if you're working with a billboard or
something, you probably wanna work with
vector, so that you can, you're not
crashing your computer, and you're
working with a small graphic that can be
blown up to any resolution, basically.
This isn't comprehensive, there's
a couple things missing off of this,
but it was, it's probably the most,
it had the most amount of things on there.
So raster images, the first three
are things that you would deliver
over the internet, the last three are not.
So JPEG, GIF, PNG,
we're gonna break down each one of these.
But the, photos, and things that
have lots of gradients and tones.
Especially, not programmatic gradients,
not like from here to here, but like lots,
like my face, or something.
JPEG, GIF and PNG, PNG having
transparency, while the others don't.
GIF has transparency, too, but PNG is
kinda better at gradient transparency.
TIFF, RAW, both being stuff that you
might get out of a digital camera, and
then, convert to one of the other,
to kind of transmit that over the web.
They tend to be larger files.
And PSD is what we were just working in,
there's also sketch format.
So those are, kind of like for
that program in specific
kind of file formats.
Vector images, it doesn't say SVG in here,
but it should, cuz SVG is Vector.
PDF is not necessarily vector.
EPS and AI are both things that you
would kind of use within Illustrator,
especially AI is only Illustrator.
EPS can be opened and things like sketch.
>> Sarah Drasner: So JPEG,
there is a thing that we use,
a term that we use with JPEG called,
lossy.
And the reason is that it does look
like there is gloss in those image.
So some of the way that we're
gonna talk about these images,
is what happens to them
when they're too small.
Like what happens to them when you
reduce the quality of the image?
So when you reduce
the quality of the JPEG,
since it's all of those little squares
that are building up the image,
the squares get kind of globbier, and
bigger, and try to carry more surface.
And so, what you end up with, is an image
that kind of deteriorates or falls over,
so, the one on the left, might look really
crisp, but it might also be too heavy to
transmit easily over the internet with
a certain amount of seconds, maybe,
you load up a site, and it's just like,
doh, ba doop, da boop, like that, and.
So you don't want that happening, you
also don't also want those blocked by it.
Again, we talked about that scale and
cropping.
You can use JPEG, and PNG, and
things like that, for
some of these background images, too.
So not just the images, but
placing them in the background, and
pushing them back in space and
have other content on top of them.
GIF or JIF, not JIF.
[LAUGH] Is a different way,
it kinda a similar to JPEG's in someways,
because it's still blocking
out little pieces.
But it's really rather restricting it
by the amounts of color that you're
going to designate.
So here is a color table we're creating
this image with all of these little
pieces of color, and we're using 256
colors, as you can see in the top there.
We can also make the image so
much smaller by limiting the color, but
you can see what happens to the image.
It looks quite different, right?
There's like a lot less information.
It doesn't look like the same way that
it's deteriorating as the JPEG though.
The JPEG turns into those bits,
the gift looks like it has less tone of
variety, and less color is transmitted.
GIF's also have the amazing ability
to communicate very important things,
like this dog, [LAUGH].
All jokes aside, it is really important
on the web, because of the way that you
can kind of create tiny movies,
that have all these tiny tonal varieties.
GIFs, these kind of animated GIFs,
are pretty heavy, though.
They're actually like really,
really heavier things to
communicate over the web.
So paying attention to,
if you do use animated GIFs,
what compression you're using,
is important.
PNG, like I mentioned, has the ability for
transparency, so if you wanna make some of
those masks, we were talking about
earlier when we're working in Photoshop,
or something like that.
PNGs are a really good example of that,